= Sundae

== Synopsis

(Re)generates directories by mixing the file hierarchies contained in
various 'mounted' directories.  The generated directories contain
symbolic links to the mounted files.  Combined with other tools (to
sync files), this scheme allows you to create separate collections of
files (work, personal, reference, linux, osx, etc.), choose which of
these you want to mount on each of your computers, and then build a
hierarchy that allows you to work on them side by side.

For example, let's take your bash config files.  You want to separate
startup commands that you use on all unix computers from those that
you only need on Linux or OS X.  Plus maybe you have some aliases that
you use only at work and some that you need only at home.  

Rewrite your .bashrc to load everything in ~/etc/bash.  Store that
file and your other bash config files in a folder with just general
*nix bash stuff.  Then use Sundae to create links in ~/etc/bash to all
of the things that you need for your particular computer (general unix
stuff + either linux or OS X stuff + work aliases + ...).  The files
are together in one folder so your script knows to read them, but they
can be version controlled and/or synced across all of your computers
in separate bundles (one for *nix, one for ubuntu, one for OS X,
etc.).

You have to figure out how to use this model.  It's not for everyone.
It requires rewriting config files, making sure certain files kept in
different folders don't have the same name, etc.  But it's worth it
when you sit down at a new computer and say "I only want to use my
*nix and linux config files, my work files, and music" and it all just
works. Like this:

    ~> ls
    Desktop  local  mnt  src  WualaDrive
    ~> sundae
    ~> ls
    bin  Desktop  doc  etc  lib  local  mnt  share  src  tmp  var  WualaDrive

And that's it.  When called, Sundae creates links so that you can
work on your files from seperate parts of life as if they were side
by side.  

== Install

  sudo gem install sundae

== Usage

The first time you run Sundae, it will create a template config file
in your home directory.  This file, <tt>.sundae</tt>, needs to be
customized.  It is just a Ruby file that defines the following:

[+configatron.paths+]          
  array; where the collections are stored
[+configatron.ignore_rules+]
  array; each element is a string or Regexp and becomes a rule that prevents
  links to files or directories that match the Regexp.  Globs in strings are expanded.

The hierarchy in <em>path</em> should look something like
this:

  path/
  |-- collection1/
  |   |-- mnt1/
  |   |   |-- real_files_and_dirs
  |   |   ` ...
  |   |-- mnt2/
  |-- collection2_really_a_mnt/
  |   |-- .sundae_path          <--- empty
  |   |-- real_files_and_dirs
  |   |   ` ...
  `-- collection3/
      ` ...

Sundae will act on all of the <em>mnt</em>s--subdirectories of the
<em>collection</em>s, that is, the sub-subdirectories of the
<em>path</em>.  The "collections" are only there to facilitate
grouping common files and syncronizing them between computers.

This sub-subdirectory business is there so you can, for example, throw
all of your linux files under version control but have some of them
inserted into your home directory and some of them go somewhere else.

If you have one collection of files that you syncronize across
computers that all get deposited into the same path, you don't need a
collection of mnts.  You can make can make the top level
directory--that would normally be treated as a collection--be treated
as a mnt by including a .sundae_path file in that folder (even if it's
empty).  Like in the 'collection2_really_a_mnt' example above.  It
seems complicated to have both options, but it's really not.  I
promise.

By default, all of the contents in each of the <em>mnt</em>s are
placed in the user's home directory.  This can be altered by creating
a file called <tt>.sundae_path</tt> in the top of the <em>mnt</em>;
the file should contain one line, which is the absolute path to where
that directory should be "mounted."

There's one exception to the "by default everything is placed in the
home directory" rule.  If the mnt directory starts with "dot-" or
"dot_" then it is placed in the dot folder formed using the rest of
the name.  For example, the files in a "dot-ssh" mnt are placed in
"~/.ssh" by default.

For example, the hierarchy in my <em>path</em>s looks sort of like this:

  ~/mnt/git/             <-- "path"
  |-- nix/               <-- "collection"
  |   |-- home/          <-- "mnt"
  |   |   |-- .emacs.d/     (~/.emacs.d will point here)
  |   |   |-- etc/          (~/etc will point here)
  |   |   ` ...
  |   |-- dot-unison
  |   |   |-- .sundae_path  (says "~/.unison", but not required)
  |   |   |-- default.prf   (~/.unison/default.prf will point here)
  |   |   `
  |   |
  |-- osx/   
  |   |-- home_library/     
  |   |   |-- .sundae_path  (says "~/Library", required)
  |   |   `-- Library-Keyboard_Layouts/
  |   |       `-- Keyboard Layouts/
  |   |           ` Colemak.keylayout
  |   |
  |-- personal
  |   `-- home/
  |       |-- doc/
  |       |   ` ...
  |       ` ... 
  ` ...    
  ~/mnt/sync/            <-- "path"
  |-- reference          <-- "collection"
  |   |-- home/          <-- "mnt"
  |       ` ...
  |-- music
  |   |-- home/          
  |       ` ...
  ` ...

Why is this double layer "collection" stuff going on?  Because while
most of the time you can share a whole folder between computers,
sometimes you want to mix your config files into a folder that also
contains nonsymlinked files.

For example, your ~/.ssh folder probably has a public and private key
that you want to stay unique to that machine, but you might want to
mix in a "config" file that has host aliases that you share between
machines.  You can put the file in "~/mnt/nix/.ssh/config" in the
above example, and it will get created alongside the other static
files in the "~/.ssh/" directory.

However, every time you run sundae it will check the target locations
of each file and directory (recursively) in every mnt directory for
dangling symlinks and other stuff that sundae might have created.  If
you put the the file in "~/mnt/nix/dot-ssh/config", it will be placed
in the correct place and only "config" will be checked when sundae is
run (not all of the other files in "~/.ssh/").  

It obviously doesn't make much of a speed difference in this case, but
if you're mixing in one file into "~/a/b/c/d/file", and there are lots
of files beneath "~/a/", then you don't want sundae to look through
everything every time it runs.  Just put it in a mnt directory with a
<tt>.sundae_path</tt> of "~/a/b/c/d".

== Author
<don@ohspite.net>

== Copyright
Copyright (c) 2011, 2008 <don@ohspite.net>.  
Licensed under the MIT License.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

